Hello and welcome to our course on python classes.
I am Dave Dalsveen, your instructor.
for this course. There are many object oriented programming
languages, these days, Java, Csharp and C plus plus, to name
a few. You can add python to the list as well.
Object oriented languages help us develop programs that makes
sense to humans.
When we think of a car we think, in terms of a car object, a red
sports car for example.
A manufacturing plant has one template for a car
and manufactures thousands of individual cars with various
colors and features using that one blueprint.
The blueprint is analogous to the class and individual cars
that are stamped from the blueprint are the objects
or object instances of the car class.
In this class, you will create a python application, in which
you will create a class definition, create a constructor
for the class and getters and setters to get the attributes
from the class or object, and represent the class as a string
for output.
We will then create object instances based on the class
definitions.
You will use the objects to organize data by sorting them.
As you can see on the slide,
there is a sample run of the finished project.
We will be using visual studio code for this class.
We will mainly be using the Explorer ,Code Explorer view
rather, up in the upper left corner with little rectangles.
We will use the run often run without the bugging most of
the time.
And then we will also use the code editor window.
As you can see up in the top up on the top right
of the slide.
You will notice that there are two panels on your screen.
I will be working on the panel on your right.
That is where I will demonstrate and cover your lesson
material.
Your work will take place on the panel on the left.
There you can work along with me and get real hands
on practice that makes this training so effective.
Remember you can pause the recording at any time to type
in the code, run the code and make corrections as we go.
In the first task, we will prepare the class by by analyzing
the class requirements.
We will look at the input file to see what the class
requirements are.
We will then create a class definition.
We will create an object instance of the class, and we
will print one of the attributes using a  using the dot
operator.
So as you can see on the slide, this is the example
of the class that we will create.
Okay, let's get started.
You will see visual studio code open with the python classes
project loaded up here in the code (editor) window.
You will see the python file already loaded classes dot p y.
We will be working in this file in the project.
But first, let's take a look at the cars dot C S V file
over here on the left.
Just click on that.
And that is the input file that we will be using to populate
our cars.
Okay, so this is what I'm looking at for the specifications
for the class definition we're going to create.
So you see, we need to make a model, a color, a year
and a price to represent the car.
So let's go back to the classes that p y file and we'll go
ahead and create a class car and end with the colon .. this is very
similar to the way we define a function.
Then we add our attributes we use.
The first line of the file is an example for attributes
we have make, model, 
Here. Sorry.
Color = red.
... Year equals 2013 and  price ... we'll just make it
10,000.
Okay,,
So we have a class definition for a car next, outside of the
car class definition.
So we will just leave ourselves a couple of spaces.
Make sure we are back outside of the car.
Class. Definition we will create our object instance of a car
just by providing an object name.
Car equals the car class.
Okay, they would print the  car's model, and then we'll add
the model.
We use the dot operator to access the the attributes.
Okay, so there we have it.
Created an object instance of our car.
Now we can simply run the code in our model is lesabre.
So as an exercise, you can go ahead and print the other
attributes of the car.
Very good.
You have no created your first class and python create an
object.
Created an object instance of the class.
In the next lesson, we will create the constructor to allow
us to pass parameters into the class When we create an object.
See you next time.